# My 41189 Reflective Portfolio
## Week 5
### What have I learnt this week?
This week I learnt about how models increase the levels of integration, flexibility and realism, through looking at the aggregation of probability distributions, the regularity of normal distributions, and the extremes of long-tailed distributions. 

### What do I 'now know' that I did not before?
This week’s learning’s taught me a lot about how to use probability distributions to comprehend and create an intuition on how action and decisions “add up” in a complex system. The aggregation of action in how our decisions, interactions, and preferences add up? It does all add up in the outside world. I got reacquainted with probability again after a long gap from school, and it now has a different meaning than the thing as I once knew, which is the long-term chance that a certain outcome will occur from some random process. It now has a random variable, which is a variable that is then subject to the random variations so that it can take on numerous different values, each with an associated probability attached to it. This all culminates into a probability distribution, and that’s the distribution of values that a random variable could have. It stands for how likely one could find the possible values of random variable. It is a list of all of the possible outcomes of a random variable, along with its corresponding probability values. A probability distribution interconnects each outcome of a random variable or process, to its probability of occurrence.

There are even 2 different types of random variables such as discrete random variables: they are the ones that have a finite of possible outcomes. Their value is calculated through counting. They are  as aforementioned countable,  and so they have nothing in between, and can be digital/binary. Additionally, there are Continuous random variables: these variables have an uncountable, and infinite number of possible values. Their value is calculated through measuring. These variables are infinite, there is always something in between, and they are analog. So probability distribution models can be used to draw conclusions, generalise behaviours, all so that we can anticipate, react, and predict, the goings on of the world.

I was surprised to learn that if we were to plot the probability distribution and it forms a bell-shaped curve then it means that the variable has normal distribution, the graph looks like a camel’s hump. A normal distribution is a type of continuous probability distribution for a real-valued random variable, like X which again, the statistics chapters from school maths are starting to come back-one thing does lead to another so I’ve found. A normal distribution is dependent upon 2 data set parameters: mean and the standard deviation (SD) of the sample. Mean and standard deviation are terms I am familiar with, from high school maths, and their meanings haven’t changed. Normal Distribution just means the Normal behaviour that we all know, and are used to. We can make use of the regularity of the normal distribution to assess for the significant differences in mean values. If an empirical mean lays more than 2 SDs from a hypothesised mean, then the hypothesis states that the means are the same, can be tossed out. 

Long-tailed distributions are also referred to as Power Law distributions. They can be used in determining city populations, world wide web links, the number of videos downloaded, and books sold, to name a few. To produce these kinds of distributions requires interdependence, which isn’t surprising-nothing truly is self-made. The 2 models that describes their formation, are preferential attachment & self-organised criticality. A lot of businesses, such as Amazon and Twitter, have been thought knowing the Power Law distribution of the market, and this would explain why they reached exponential success. 

In the models, preferential treatment is when a sequence of objects (people) arrive one after another, which sort of contrasts with how society defines it-which is when you treat someone more favourably because they possess something, therefore putting them at an advantage ahead of others. The first arrival creates an entity. Each arrival that comes after it, applies the following rule: With probability p (small), the arrival forms a new entity. With probability (1−p), the arrival joins an existing entity. The probability of joining a particular entity = its size/ by the number of arrivals to date-this perhaps explains the existence of all sorts of clubs and organisations. Meanwhile, the self-organised criticality model, produces a power-law distribution through a process that builds further upon the interdependencies in a system until the systems reaches a critical state.

### What insights have I gained?
The insights I gained from this week’s content are that as a rule, we should prefer regularity to the potential for large events, it is so easy to take normality for granted and wish for more, until you have the rug pulled out from right under you-then suddenly normalcy is tossed out the window, and you have in its place, complete and utter chaos, and now you want regularity back. Therefore, we  need logic from the various distributions. In general, we would like to add random shocks rather than x them together so as to reduce the likelihood of large events. Probability distributions help model our world — the aggregation of action. In long-tailed distributions, large events occur with sufficient probability to be of concern. Long-tailed distributions arise because of feedbacks and interdependencies — as our world becomes more interconnected and feedbacks increase, we should see more long tails. Current long tails that we are now seeing could extend even further— inequities may increase, catastrophes grow larger, and volatility becomes more prominent everywhere. No one wants these events to occur. 

### What are (my/the) perceived strengths and weaknesses that I have observed?
For me, my perceived strengths are that I believe I have some people smarts. I can understand my own emotions, the feelings of others, and the subtleties of social situations. I would also like to think that I have some planning and sequencing smarts in how I create my goals, and organise the steps that I’ll take towards that goal in a logical order and either stick with the plan or be flexible in altering it, if circumstances change. However, I do realise that I need to further develop these perceived strengths of mine. As for my weaknesses, I have yet to master thinking using numbers, spatial reasoning in thinking in pictures-which I think are very important smarts to have when it comes to many model thinking.

### What were the challenges I encountered/observed and how well (did I/my team) handle them?
The challenges I observed this week are organising my mental model in the framework comprised of my underlying assumptions stemming from socialisation, values, beliefs, education, and experience that all help me in organising information. I need to understand the why behind my thinking and behaviours. I and my team are working on our challenges by showcasing our advocacy, using examples, facts and gathering information. 

### What would I do better next time and with what anticipated results?
What I would do better next time is to enquire, through asking questions to check my assumptions. Dialogue, by collaborating with others to tackle complex issues. Reflection, through paying attention to your thoughts, feelings and behaviours and what effect these factors could have on myself and others. 

### What theory proved to be useful and why? What have I learnt from this?
The theory that has proved to be most useful for this week is the Mighty Central Limit Theorem. The Central Limit Theorem is a simple and effective model for the aggregation of decisions, happening in groups, filled with people. Each agent in the group, then makes an independent decision and we will measure the choices made via a probability distribution, which we can then use to make predictions about what will occur. I loved learning about how people go about making various decisions and acting on them, and making inferences on what events will happen in the near future. It is about large quantities of random variables with the same distribution, each with an identical finite variance, from which we’d obtain an expected value. 
